docs(framework) Add Flower Network Communication reference (#4805)
adap/flower: framework/docs/source/explanation-flower-network-diagram.rst

Flower Network Diagram
======================

This page complements the content in the `Flower Architecture
<explanation-flower-architecture.html>`_ overview guide in terms of the connections that
a deployed Flower system makes use of.

Fundamentally, there are two types of connections: (1) `user` ↔ ``SuperLink``
connections initiated via the `Flower CLI <ref-api-cli.html>`_; and (2) connections
between the different Flower infrastructure components (e.g. ``SuperLink`` ↔
``SuperNode``). The former enables a user (e.g. a data scientist) to perform actions

> such as submitting a ``Run``, query the status of a ongoing ``Run``, and more. The

Reviewer: ```suggestion
such as submitting a ``Run``, query the status of an ongoing ``Run``, and more. The
```

latter set of connections are used by ``SuperLink`` and ``SuperNodes`` to establish and
maintain a secure connection and for the ``ServerApp`` and ``ClientApp`` to communicate

> (e.g. model parameters, metrics, etc).

Author: you are right. I made the change and shorten the second item so it fits in a single line

.. note::

>     Optionally, a connection to a third-party service can be established in order to

Reviewer: For clarity.
```suggestion
    Optionally, a connection to a third-party service can be established to
```

    </div>

.. tip::

    Click on the buttons above to toggle between `subproces` and `process` isolation
    modes. As the name suggest, the former implies that ``ServerApp`` and ``ClientApp``
    instances run as sub-processes of the ``SuperLink`` and ``SuperNode`` respectively.
    This mode is ideal when a simplified deployment is a priority. On the other hand,
    `process` isolation mode brings more flexibility to your Flower deployment by
    letting you decide where ``ClientApp`` and ``ServerApp`` should run (e.g. on an
    different server than those were ``SuperNode`` or ``SuperLink`` run). Check the
    :doc:`docker/index` to gain a better understanding on how to use both modes.

What follows is a description of what each connection in the diagram represents:

- `User` ↔ ``SuperLink``: The only mechanism for a user to interface with the Flower
  system (e.g. to submit a ``Run``, retrieve the logs of a ``Run``, etc) is via the
  `Flower CLI <ref-api-cli.html>`_ commands. It is not possible for a user to interface
  with the ``SuperNodes``.

> - ``SuperLink`` ↔ ``SuperNode``: A Flower federations is built on a series of

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- ``SuperLink`` ↔ ``SuperNode``: A Flower federation is built on a series of
```

  ``SuperNodes`` connected to the same ``SuperLink``. This connection is used by each
  ``SuperNode`` to periodically check with the ``SuperLink`` if some action involving
  its local data (e.g. locally train a model). Only ``SuperNodes`` can initiate such
  request. ``SuperNodes`` do not respond to incoming requests. The ``SuperLink`` ↔
  ``SuperNode`` connection is typically implemented on `gRCP` + `SSL`.
- ``SuperLink`` ↔ ``ServerApp``: This connection allows the ``ServerApp`` to interface
  with the ``LinkState``, a store in the ``SuperLink`` where a register of connected
  ``SuperNodes`` is kept and where messages returned from a ``SuperNode`` (e.g. the

>   parameters of locally trained model) are temporally storaged. This connection provides

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  parameters of locally trained model) are temporally stored. This connection provides
```

  the ``ServerApp`` with capabilities such as sampling nodes, communicate the state of a
  `global model` (that ``ClientApps`` in the ``SuperNodes`` should train/evaluate
  locally), or perform the aggregation of model updates and metrics. This connection is
  stablished via `gRPC`.
- ``SuperNode`` ↔ ``ClientApp``: This connection allows the ``ClientApp`` to communicate
  with its ``SuperNode`` to fetch the inputs (e.g. model parameters sent from the
  ``ServerApp`` via the ``SuperLink``) needed to execute the task it has been designed

>   for. This communication channel is also use for the ``SuperNode`` to receive the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  for. This communication channel is also used for the ``SuperNode`` to receive the
```

  generated outputs (e.g. the parameters of a trained model) from the process running
  the ``ClientApp`` so these can be pushed to the ``SuperLink```. The ``SuperNode`` ↔
  ``ClientApp`` connection is stablished via `gRPC`.
- ``ClientApp`` ↔ DB: ``ClientApp`` instances need to be able to access the data to
  perform the action they have been designed for (e.g. train locally a model, run a DB
  query). How this connection is stablished depends on what storage technology used at
  the client side.
- ``SuperLink`` ↔ `User Authentication Service`: A ``SuperLink`` may optionally be
  configured to only allow authenticated users to interface with it. Flower uses OIDC to

>   implement such feature.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  implement this feature.
```

> Flower Network Diagram

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
:og:description: Discover Flower Architecture connections: Learn how User/SuperLink interact via CLI and the secure links between SuperLink, SuperNode, ServerApp, and ClientApp.
.. meta::
    :description: Discover Flower Architecture connections: Learn how User/SuperLink interact via CLI and the secure links between SuperLink, SuperNode, ServerApp, and ClientApp.
    
Flower Network Diagram
```

======================

This page complements the content in the `Flower Architecture
<explanation-flower-architecture.html>`_ overview guide by detailing the connections
used in a deployed Flower system.

Fundamentally, there are two types of connections:

1. User ↔ ``SuperLink`` connections initiated via the `Flower CLI <ref-api-cli.html>`_.
2. Connections between Flower infrastructure components (e.g. ``SuperLink`` ↔
   ``SuperNode``).

> The former enables a user (e.g. a data scientist) to perform actions such as submitting

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The first connection enables a user (e.g. a data scientist) to perform actions such as submitting
```

> a ``Run``, query the status of a ongoing ``Run``, and more. The latter set of

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
a ``Run``, query the status of a ongoing ``Run``, and more. The second set of
```

connections are used by ``SuperLink`` and ``SuperNodes`` to establish and maintain a

> secure connection and for the ``ServerApp`` and ``ClientApp`` to communicate (e.g. model

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
secure connections for the ``ServerApp`` and ``ClientApp`` to communicate (e.g. model
```

parameters, metrics, etc).

.. note::

>     Optionally, a connection to a third-party service can be established to provide

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    Optionally, a third connection to a third-party service can be established to provide
```

.. raw:: html

    <div id="diagram1" style="display:block;">
        <img src="./_static/flower-network-diagram-subprocess.svg" alt="Flower Network Diagram (subprocess)">
    </div>
    <div id="diagram2" style="display:none;">
        <img src="./_static/flower-network-diagram-process.svg" alt="Flower Network Diagram (process)">
    </div>
    <div style="text-align: center; margin-bottom: 1em;">
        <button onclick="document.getElementById('diagram1').style.display='block'; document.getElementById('diagram2').style.display='none';">Subprocess Mode</button>
        <button onclick="document.getElementById('diagram1').style.display='none'; document.getElementById('diagram2').style.display='block';">Process Mode</button>
    </div>

.. tip::

    Click the buttons above to toggle between **subprocess** and **process** isolation
    modes. As the name suggest, the former implies that ``ServerApp`` and ``ClientApp``
    instances run as sub-processes of the ``SuperLink`` and ``SuperNode`` respectively.
    This mode is ideal when a simplified deployment is a priority. On the other hand,
    `process` isolation mode brings more flexibility to your Flower deployment by

>     letting you decide where ``ClientApp`` and ``ServerApp`` should run (e.g. on an
>     different server than those were ``SuperNode`` or ``SuperLink`` run). Check the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    letting you decide where ``ClientApp``\s and ``ServerApp`` should run (e.g. on
    servers different to those where ``SuperNode``\s or ``SuperLink`` are run). Check the
```

>     :doc:`docker/index` to gain a better understanding on how to use both modes.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    :doc:`docker/index` guide to gain a better understanding on how to use both modes.
```

What follows is a description of what each connection in the diagram represents:

- User ↔ ``SuperLink``: The only mechanism for a user to interface with the Flower
  system (e.g. to submit a ``Run``, retrieve the logs of a ``Run``, etc) is via the
  `Flower CLI <ref-api-cli.html>`_ commands. It is not possible for a user to interface
  with the ``SuperNodes``.
- ``SuperLink`` ↔ ``SuperNode``: A Flower federation is built on a series of
  ``SuperNodes`` connected to the same ``SuperLink``. This connection is used by each

>   ``SuperNode`` to periodically check with the ``SuperLink`` if some action involving
>   its local data (e.g. locally train a model). Only ``SuperNodes`` can initiate such
>   request. ``SuperNodes`` do not respond to incoming requests. The ``SuperLink`` ↔
>   ``SuperNode`` connection is typically implemented on `gRCP` + `SSL`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  ``SuperNode`` to periodically check with the ``SuperLink`` if some action involving
  its local data (e.g. locally train a model) is required. Only ``SuperNodes`` can initiate such
  requests. ``SuperNodes`` do not respond to incoming requests. The ``SuperLink`` ↔
  ``SuperNode`` connection is implemented with gRPC. Furthermore, TLS connection can be enabled (see :doc:`how-to-enable-tls-connections` to learn more).
```

- ``SuperLink`` ↔ ``ServerApp``: This connection allows the ``ServerApp`` to interface
  with the ``LinkState``, a store in the ``SuperLink`` where a register of connected
  ``SuperNodes`` is kept and where messages returned from a ``SuperNode`` (e.g. the
  parameters of locally trained model) are temporally stored. This connection provides
  the ``ServerApp`` with capabilities such as sampling nodes, communicate the state of a
  `global model` (that ``ClientApps`` in the ``SuperNodes`` should train/evaluate

>   locally), or perform the aggregation of model updates and metrics. This connection is
>   stablished via `gRPC`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  locally), or perform the aggregation of model updates and metrics. The SuperLink ↔ ``ServerApp`` connection is established via gRPC.
```

- ``SuperNode`` ↔ ``ClientApp``: This connection allows the ``ClientApp`` to communicate
  with its ``SuperNode`` to fetch the inputs (e.g. model parameters sent from the
  ``ServerApp`` via the ``SuperLink``) needed to execute the task it has been designed
  for. This communication channel is also used for the ``SuperNode`` to receive the
  generated outputs (e.g. the parameters of a trained model) from the process running

>   the ``ClientApp`` so these can be pushed to the ``SuperLink```. The ``SuperNode`` ↔

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  the ``ClientApp`` so that these outputs can be pushed to the ``SuperLink```. The ``SuperNode`` ↔
```

>   ``ClientApp`` connection is stablished via `gRPC`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  ``ClientApp`` connection is established via gRPC.
```

- ``ClientApp`` ↔ DB: ``ClientApp`` instances need to be able to access the data to
  perform the action they have been designed for (e.g. train locally a model, run a DB

>   query). How this connection is stablished depends on what storage technology used at
>   the client side.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  query). How this connection is established depends on what storage technology used at
  the client side. Note that in the diagram above, we show two representative connections to DBs in Client-A and Client-B. Your DB connection(s) may likely be different to the illustration above.
```

- ``SuperLink`` ↔ `User Authentication Service`: A ``SuperLink`` may optionally be

>   configured to only allow authenticated users to interface with it. Flower uses OIDC to

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  configured to allow authenticated users to interact with it. Flower uses the OpenID Connect authentication protocol to
```
